# Note 6: Handling Text Files Part 2

Commands cover in lecture:

## awk
### Definition: 
Awk is a scripting language used for processing and displaying text. Awk can work with a text file or from standard output. Awk was created in Bell Labs during the 70s by Alfred Aho, Peter Weinberger, and Brian Kernighan and its name comes from its author's initials. 
### Usage:
`awk`+`options`+`(awk command)`+`file`+`file to save (optional)`
### Examples:
* Print the first column of every line of a file
  * `awk '{print $1}' ~/Documents/Csv/cars.csv`
* Print first field of /etc/passwd file
  * `awk -F: '{print $1}' /etc/passwd`
* Print the last field of the /etc/passwd file
  * `awk -F: '{print $NF}' /etc/passwd`
  
<hr>

## sed
### Definition: 
SED is a stream editor that perform operations on files and standard output. For instance it can search, find and replace, insert, and deletion. 
### Usage:
`sed options`+`sed script`+`file`
### Examples:
* Replacing a string in given file (replace pizza for rice)
  * `sed 's/pizza/rice/' shopping-list.lst`
* Replacing the number of occurrences of a pattern in a file
  * `sed 's/pizza/rice/4' shopping-list.lst`
* Replacing all the occurrence of the pattern in a file
  * `sed 's/pizza/rice/g' shopping-list.lst`

<hr>

## less
### Definition:
File descriptors are positive integers used for identifying open files in a given session.
### Usage:
`Command output`+`>`+`file`
### Examples:
* Save the output of a command to a file
  * `ls -lA ~ > all-files-in-home.txt`
* Save the error generated by a command to a file
  * `ls -lA downloads/ 2> error-of-ls`
* Save the error to a file and the success to another
  * `ls -lA downloads/ Pictures > success.txt 2> error.txt`
  
<hr>

## alias
### Definition:
A shorthand for a more complicated command. Alias do not persist unless you save them in your .bashrc or .bash_aliases file
### Usage:
`alias name_of_alias="command here"`
### Examples:
* An alias to upgrade a linux (debian system)
  * `alias update="sudo apt update; sudo apt upgrade -y; sudo apt full-upgrade -y"`
* An alias to clean your system from unneeded packages
  * `alias clean="sudo apt autoremove -y; sudo apt autoclean; sudo apt purge;"`

<hr>

## >>
### Definition: 
A operator returns a number or bigint whose binary represent a shifted by the specified number of bits to the right. 